Releasing with prebuilt Docker image for mirrors (#3322)
metabrainz/musicbrainz-server: RELEASING.md

See the private system administration wiki for additional prerequisites.

The Git remote `origin` is assumed to point at `https://github.com/metabrainz/musicbrainz-server.git`.

## Release production

### Prepare Jira

Those steps should be followed when releasing beta, and can be double-cheked then releasing production.

1. Make sure a version with status “Unreleased”, usually named “next”, is present in the
   [Jira MBS project administration panel](https://tickets.metabrainz.org/projects/MBS?selectedItem=com.atlassian.jira.jira-projects-plugin:release-page). Its serial ID will be used for tagging the branch `production` in Git.

2. Make sure that the field “Fix Version” is set to this version for all the
   [tickets in beta testing](http://tickets.musicbrainz.org/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&jqlQuery=status+%3D+%22In+Beta+Testing%22+and+project+%3D+mbs). If needed, use “Tools”, “Bulk Change”, “Edit Issues”, without “Send mail for this update”.

3. Make sure that all of these tickets also have:

>    * A “type” that makes sense, with a “summary” that makes sense for this type;
>    * A “summary” that makes sense, even in a list that is omitting other fields;

Reviewer: But we'll only change the summary once, right? Would it make sense to then say:

```suggestion
   * A “type” that makes sense;
   * A “summary” that makes sense for the type, and is clear even in a list that does not include other fields;
```

selecting the version you are going to release,
and clicking “Release Notes” in the top.

If there are any React conversion tasks
(which should be sub-tasks of [MBS-8609](https://tickets.metabrainz.org/browse/MBS-8609)),
move these to the section “React Conversion Task” at the end,
and move other (sub-)tasks under the section “Other Task”.
Otherwise, just put all the tasks under a unique section “Task”.

Last but not least, thank (in order of rarity):
* code contributors, who can be listed with `./script/list_code_contributors`,
* translators, who can be listed with `./po/list_translators`,
* reporters of each addressed issue at least,
  and every other constructive feedback providers if possible:
  * reporters of [tickets addressed in beta](https://tickets.metabrainz.org/issues/?filter=10715&jql=project%20%3D%20MBS%20AND%20status%20%3D%20%22In%20Beta%20Testing%22%20ORDER%20BY%20reporter%20ASC%2C%20type%2C%20key)
  * reporters of [tickets about beta](https://tickets.metabrainz.org/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20MBS%20AND%20%28summary%20~%20Beta%20OR%20fixVersion%20%3D%20Beta%29%20AND%20created%20%3E%3D%20-2weeks%20ORDER%20BY%20reporter%20ASC) (assuming a two weeks cycle)

>   * comment authors (using the same lists ordered by “Watchers” to find the most popular tickets, see also pull requests)

Reviewer: Thanking comment authors seems like it would look slightly ridiculous to me to be honest (unless it is very specific ones that were particularly useful).

Author: I did that a few times before, when their contribution is thorough enough, as sometimes comments go more into details than the tickets. “constructive feedback” was already mentioned above, but I can add “thorough” here too, and make it more optional because it can be tricky to remember them all:
```suggestion
  * thorough comment authors if possible (using the same lists ordered by “Watchers” to find the most popular tickets, see also pull requests)
```

Reviewer: Ok, if you mean "especially good commenters", that seems sensible to me, your amendment seems sensible.

* appending a Git revision range `v-prev-io-us..v-curr-en-t`
  to the listing commands (see `--help` for details),
* replacing some condition with
  `fixVersion = ` _the current version_
  in the Jira queries.

Once the draft has been reviewed, then update the description of the MBS version in Jira with the blog post URL.
This URL will also be used in the following section.
The blog post will be published only after that.

### Release musicbrainz-docker

In your clone of [MusicBrainz’s Docker Compose project](https://github.com/metabrainz/musicbrainz-docker):

1. Update the version of MusicBrainz Server to dockerize.
   See example commit <https://github.com/metabrainz/musicbrainz-docker/commit/a0930848751a9b923e8c7261f2ff2904af2577ec>.
   See also prerequisites from `admin/repository/prebuild-musicbrainz --help`.

   Check files under `build/musicbrainz/` and `build/musicbrainz-dev/` and update those if needed.
   It can usually be needed when changing `DBDefs`, dependencies, or scripts in MusicBrainz Server.

2. Build, tag and push Docker image for mirrors using the script `admin/repository/prebuild-musicbrainz`

3. Manually test running a mirror with this image.

>    (Test development setup too if any change to it.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (Test development setup too if there is any change to it.)
```
